Formulas for quanitfying risk:

Asset Value (AV) x Exposure Factor (EF) = Single Loss Expectancy (SLE)
Single Loss Expectancy (SLE) x Annualized Rate of Occurence (ARO) = Annualized Loss Expectancy (ALE)

Types of Threats:
    - Malware
        * Viruses
            - One of the two most common types of malware
            - Designed to replicate and spread
            - Usually spreads through email
            - Uses system resources. causing network slowdowns or stoppage.
        * Trojan horses
            - The other most common type of malware
            - Sits mounted on a file and is implanted onto a device
            - Appears benign at first, but is dangerous to hardware and data.
        * Spyware
            - A rapidly growing type of malware
                * Cookies
                * Key loggers
        * Logic Bombs
            - Lay dormant until some logical condition is met, often a specific date.
    - Security breaches
        * Hacking
        * Cracking
        * Social Engineering
        * War-driving
        * War-dialing
    - DoS: Denial of Service Attacks
        - The attacker blocks access to authorized users
        - The attacker does not access the sustem
        - Distributed DoS (DDoS)
            * Uses multiple machines to attack the target
    - Web attacks
        - In a web attack, the attacker attempts to breach a web application
        - Common attacks of this type include:
            * SQL injection
            * Cross-site scripting
    - Session hijacking
        - Unauthorized User manipulates cookies in an active session to get access to a website.
    - Insider threats
        - A type of security breach
        - An insider threat occurs when someone inside an organization:
            * Misuses his access to data. or
            * Accesses data he is not authorized to access
            * Steals data
            * Sells Data
    - DNS Poisoning
        - DNS poisoning takes a malicious domain and injects it to the user as their entering their site, giving them a malicious website.
    - New attacks: Doxing
        - Doxing refers to the process of location personal information on an individual and threatening to vroadcasting it, often via the Internet.
        - This can include any personal information about any person; most often used against public figures.
        - This type of attack is becoming more prevelant. 

    Basic Security Terminology:

    People:
        - Hackers:
            * White hat : Pen Testers / Ethical Hackers.
            * Black hat : Some asshole(s) who steals your shit straight up.
            * Gray hat : Also Ethical Hackers.
        - Script kiddies
        - Penetration Testing
        - Ethical Hacking

    Devices:
        - Firewall
            * Filters network traffic
        - Proxy server
            * Disguises IP address of internal host
        - Intrusion Detection System (IDS) / IPS
            * Monitors traffic, looks for attempted attacks

    Activities:
        * Authentication
        * Auditing

    Concepts and Approaches:
        * How will you protect your network?
            - CIA Triangle
            - Least privileges
            - Perimeter security approach
            - Layered Security approach
            - Proactive versus reactive
            - Hybrid security approach 